






 



 Donald R. Uzarski 





Adjunct Professor (Retired)



uzarski@illinois.edu
 





Overview
Research




BiographyDonald  R. Uzarski has been a member of the University of Illinois at  Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) Civil Engineering faculty since 1994. He has  been supporting the railroad engineering program through the development  and teaching of a course in railroad track engineering. He has also  taught courses in transportation engineering and pavement management.
Dr. Uzarski retired in the summer of 2004 from the U.S. Army  Construction Engineering Research Laboratory (CERL), Champaign, IL,  after twenty years of service. He served as a Principal Investigator and  Project Manager for research efforts in railroad track and building  asset management. He also served as a technical consultant in those  areas to the U.S. Army and the U.S. Navy.
The technology transfer mechanism for Dr. Uzarski's research is  through the computerized asset management decision support systems  called RAILER (railroad track) and BUILDER (buildings). Dr. Uzarski  designed these database driven computer applications and new versions  reflect new embedded technology and capabilities. Geographical  Information System (GIS) technology is included in both. RAILER and  BUILDER are available to the various Department of Defense activities,  other federal agencies, local and state Governments and the private  sector. Dr. Uzarski also developed and teaches short courses on these  topics for new users. To successfully accomplish the research, Dr.  Uzarski has interacted and partnered with professionals within the  military services, academia, other governmental agencies and the private  sector.
A retired Navy Civil Engineer Corps officer, Dr. Uzarski served on  active duty between 1970 and 1986 and in the reserves from 1986 to 1995.  He retired at the rank of Captain. His duty stations included locations  in both the United States and overseas, including two tours in the  Seabees. His various duty assignments progressed to increased leadership  positions and responsibilities in all aspects of construction, public  works, and contracts. He was also a course director and instructor at  the Naval School, Civil Engineer Corps Officers.
He earned his BS, MS, and Ph.D. degrees in Civil Engineering from the  University of Illinois in 1970, 1980, and 1991, respectively. His Ph.D.  thesis consisted of developing a low-speed, low volume railroad track  condition assessment procedure consisting of condition indexes. He has  authored over fifty papers, reports, and articles on the various aspects  of infrastructure (railroads, roads, and buildings) asset management.
Professional memberships include being an active member of the  American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), the American Railway  Engineering and Maintenance of Way Association (AREMA), the  Transportation Research Board (TRB), and other organizations. He serves  on several national committees for ASCE, AREMA, and TRB and is the  Past-Chair of the ASCE Infrastructure Asset Management Committee. He is a  registered Professional Engineer in Illinois and Pennsylvania. His  awards include the Navy Achievement Medal, the Meritorious Service  Medal, the ASCE Government Civil Engineer of the Year (Zone III) in 1992  and the CERL Researcher of the Year in 1990.
Dr. Uzarski's research in the science of asset management has led to  improved maintenance and repair (M&R) decision making which results  in improved facility condition at less cost. The U.S. Armed Services own  and operate thousands of miles of railroad track and thousands of  buildings. Dr. Uzarski's work has saved countless dollars through  M&R cost avoidance for those assets.


Research StatementDuring 20 years at the U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory, Dr. Uzarski conducted research to further developing the science of asset management. This includes modeling the decision making process, determining the data required to support those decisions, establishing the business rules to support the process, creating new metrics to measure condition and performance, and performing necessary analyses.












Related News



Watch









