






 


Douglas L Jones 


Administrative TitlesWilliam L. Everitt Distinguished Professor in Electrical and Computer Engineering

William L. Everitt Distinguished Professor Emeritus
(217) 244-6823
dl-jones@illinois.edu
115 Coordinated Science Lab



For More Information
Prof. Jones' Home Page

Education
PhD   Electrical Engineering   Rice University, Houston, TX   May 1987

BiographyDouglas L. Jones received the BSEE, MSEE, and Ph.D. degrees from Rice University in 1983, 1986, and 1987, respectively. During the 1987-1988 academic year, he was at the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg in Germany on a Fulbright postdoctoral fellowship. Since 1988, he has been with the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where he is currently a Professor in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Neuroscience, the Coordinated Science Laboratory, and the Beckman Institute. He was on sabbatical leave at the University of Washington in Spring 1995 and at the University of California at Berkeley in Spring 2002. In the Spring semester of 1999 he served as the Texas Instruments Visiting Professor at Rice University. He is now serving as the Director of the Advanced Digital Sciences Centre (ADSC) Illinois at Singapore.  He is an author of two DSP laboratory textbooks, and was selected as the 2003 Connexions Author of the Year. He is a Fellow of the IEEE. He served on the Board of Governors of the IEEE Signal Processing Society from 2002-2004. His research interests are in digital signal processing, including nonstationary signal analysis, adaptive processing, multisensor data processing, OFDM, and various applications such as low-power implementations, biology and neuroengineering, and advanced hearing aids and other audio systems.
Major Consulting Activities
Sonistic, LLC, Co-Founder and Scientific Advisor

Teaching StatementProfessor Jones teaches from the freshman to graduate levels in the general area of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with an emphasis on signal processing.  He is particularly interested in laboratory-based instruction, and has developed ECE 420: Digital Signal Processing Laboratory, the laboratory for ECE 210, and the laboratory-intensive ECE 101 general education course. He has also developed and taught a course in signal analysis for neuroscientists participating in an interdisciplinary Neuroengineering program and an interdisciplinary neuroengineering research course. Professor Jones is committed to enhancing engineering education world-wide, and has made his instructional texts for digital signal processing laboratory and advanced signal processing algorithms openly available for use and reuse through the Connexions open-source textbook project; they have been used at a number of universities and translated into several languages.
Research Interests
Neuro-engineering
VLSI implementation of digital signal processing
Biological applications of signal processing
Multichannel estimation and denoising
Signal Processing for MEMS
Digital signal processing for hearing aids, audio, and acoustic applications
Signal Processing for Communications
Time-varying and Time-frequency Analysis
Digital Signal Processing
Click for more

Research Areas
Adaptive signal processing
Audio, speech, music and auditory processing
Biomedical Imaging, Bioengineering, and Acoustics
Circuits
Efficient energy management and conversion for lighting, communications, information technology, transportation, and appliances
Machine learning
Signal Processing
VLSI architectures and integrated circuits for DSP and communications
Click for more

Research Topics
Autonomous Systems and Artificial Intelligence
Bioelectronics and Bioinformatics
Healthcare and medical technologies
Human computer interactions
Neuro-engineering
Sensing systems
Speech, language, and audio processing
Click for more
Honors
Connexions Author of the Year, 2003
Fellow, IEEE, 2001
Texas Instruments Visiting Professor, Rice University, 1999
Fulbright Postdoctoral Fellow, 1987-1988

Teaching Honors
ECE Ronald W. Pratt Faculty Outstanding Teaching Award (2006)

Research Honors
NSF Research Initiation Award, 1991

Public Service Honors
Board of Governors, IEEE Signal Processing Society, 2002-2005


Recent Courses TaughtECE 120 - Introduction to Computing







Related News


ECE faculty members lead new cybersecurity initiative in Singapore


Three new named professorships announced


Researchers explore the mystery of neuron coding and its applications


Robo-whiskers developed at Illinois could aid laparoscopic surgery


New Computer Engineering curriculum includes emphasis on computing systems


ADSC extends time, funding for research in Singapore








