






 



Edwin E Herricks 





Professor Emeritus


(217) 840-5348
herricks@illinois.edu
3230B Newmark Civil Engineering Bldg





Overview
Research




Primary Research AreaEnvironmental Engineering and Science
Research Areas
Environmental Engineering and Science

Biography
Edwin  E. Herricks joined the faculty of the Department of Civil and  Environmental Engineering in 1975. He received a BA in Zoology and  English from the University of Kansas in 1968, an M.S. in  Sanitary/Environmental Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University in  1970, and a Ph.D. in Biology from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and  State University in 1973. He was a research and field biologist with  Union Carbide Corporation from 1973-75. He is presently a Professor of  Environmental Biology in the Environmental Engineering and Science  Program and holds affiliate appointments in the Departments of Animal  Biology (College of Liberal Arts and Sciences) and Natural Resources and  Environmental Sciences (College of Agriculture, Community, and  Environmental Sciences) and the Environmental Council.
Dr. Herricks has been an adviser to local, state, and federal  government. He has regularly served as an adviser to the U. S.  Environmental Protection Agency, he is a member of the Science Advisory  Board of the Illinois River Coordinating Council, Office of the Illinois  Lieutenant Governor, and has served as the Chair of the City of  Champaign Environmental Advisory Commission and on the Citizen’s  Advisory Board of the Champaign County Forest Preserve District.  Dr.  Herricks has also served on several National Research Council panels  addressing issues that included non-coal mining impact to the  environment, the legacy of radiation problems at Hanford, Wash.,  management of the Upper Mississippi River Navigation Project and the  Corps of Engineers project and planning process.  He was appointed to  the Surface Transportation Cooperative Research Advisory Board in 2000.
In his research, teaching, and professional activities  Professor Herricks couples an understanding of the environment with  engineering-based approaches to management and regulation. As a  biologist, he has structured his program on the analysis and  interpretation of the effects of contaminants and other environmental  alterations on communities of organisms (in both aquatic and terrestrial  ecosystems). His research analyzes and interprets the effects of  environmental change on aquatic and terrestrial species, populations,  and communities, with a particular emphasis on the development of  methods to improve environmental decision-making and ecologically  relevant engineering design. Specific research areas include: (1)  development of biological monitoring procedures for environmental  decision making, (2) time related consequences of environmental change  ranging from stormwater runoff to climate change effects, (3) analysis  of organism habitat relationships in streams and wetlands directed to  restoration and naturalization, (4) systems analysis of human- natural  system interactions including transportation system interactions with  wildlife, and (5) development of engineering design approaches that  minimize environmental and ecological impact.


Research StatementDr. Herricks' research interests include the development of a systems approach to minimizing wildlife/aircraft interactions and improving aircraft safety; evaluation of the regional effects of climate change, specifically the effect of climate change scenarios on fisheries; the restoration of streams in urban areas, including the development of ecological engineering concepts for watershed management; and the development of an integrated hydrologic, geomorphic, and ecological classification system for watershed management. 
Primary Research AreaEnvironmental Engineering and Science
Research Areas
Environmental Engineering and Science













Related News


Herricks Honored for Bird Radar Work


New Technology Advances Bird Radar Use at Airports


New Offices Open for Airport Safety Researchers


CEE researcher works to reduce bird-plane collisions


Herricks Wins FAA Award for Excellence in Aviation Research



Watch









