






 



Leslie J Struble 





Professor Emeritus


(217) 333-2544
lstruble@illinois.edu
2110 Newmark Civil Engineering Bldg





Overview
Research




Primary Research AreaConstruction Materials
Research Areas
Construction Materials

BiographyLeslie J. Struble holds a B.A. in chemistry (Pitzer College, 1970),  an M.S. in civil engineering (Purdue University, 1979), and a Ph.D. in  civil engineering (Purdue University, 1987). She has been a member of  the faculty in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at  the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign since 1989. Prior to  joining the faculty of the University of Illinois, she worked at the  National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Martin Marietta  Laboratories, and California Portland Cement Company.
Dr. Struble has taught undergraduate courses on the behavior of  construction materials and on concrete science and technology, and  graduate courses on the chemistry and microstructure of cement and  concrete and laboratory methods for characterizing construction  materials.
Dr. Struble is active in several professional societies. She is a  member and fellow of the American Ceramic Society, where she has served  as editor of Cements Research Progress and trustee of the Cements Division and is currently an associate editor of JACerS. She is a member and fellow of the American Society for Testing and Materials, where she serves as an associate editor of the Journal of ASTM International  and is an honorary member of ASTM committees C01 and C09, where she  chairs several subcommittees and task groups. She is a fellow and member  of the American Concrete Institute. She is a member of the American  Association of University Professors, where she is a member of the UIUC  policy advisory committee and vice president of the UIUC chapter.
Dr. Struble is Director of the Center for Cement Composite Materials  at U of I. She is affiliated with the Center for Advanced Cement-Based  Materials. Dr. Struble was awarded a National Science Foundation Young  Investigator Award in 1992 to support research on rheology of cement  paste and concrete. She is a fellow of the American Ceramic Society, the  American Society for Testing and Materials, and the American Concrete  Institute.
She has edited several books and proceedings and has authored or  co-authored more than 140 publications dealing with various aspects of  cement and concrete.


Research StatementDr. Struble's research interests involve various aspects of concrete composition, microstructure, and performance. She is currently directing research on early cement hydration reactions and set, on geopolymer concrete, and on the substitution of alumina in calcium silicate hydrate. 
Primary Research AreaConstruction Materials
Research Areas
Construction Materials













Related News


Biomineralization: Key to Self-Healing Concrete



Watch









