






 



Samuel H Carpenter 





Professor Emeritus


(217) 333-4188
scarpent@illinois.edu
1206 Newmark Civil Engineering Bldg





Overview
Research




Primary Research AreaTransportation Engineering
Research Areas
Transportation Engineering

Biography
Samuel  H. Carpenter received his B.S. (Texas A & M University 1968), M.S.  (Texas A & M University 1972), and Ph.D. (Texas A & M University  1976) in civil engineering. He has been on the faculty of the  department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the University of  Illinois since 1976, and serves as the Director of the Illinois  Cooperative Highway and Transportation Research Program.
Dr. Carpenter has taught graduate and undergraduate courses in  pavement rehabilitation, pavement management, pavement design, and  bituminous materials and mix design.  His major area of academic study  has been in the area of asphalt materials characterization and mix  design, performance evaluation and rehabilitation, with an emphasis on  moisture/environmental damage and the means to mitigate such damage  through drainage.
He has received the D. Grant Mickle award from the National Academy  of Science, Transportation Research Board in 1989 for the best paper in  the pavement maintenance area. In 1995 he received the Everitt Award for  Teaching Excellence from the College of Engineering as an outstanding  teacher in the College of Engineering at the University of Illinois. He  has been on the Advisor's List several times for excellence in under  graduate advising. He has recently been elected to serve on the Board of  Directors for the Foundation for Pavement Preservation (FP2) and is on  their education committee to expand the dissemination of instructional  material on the concept of pavement and infrastructure preservation.
Dr. Carpenter is a member of ASCE, and serves on TRB committees  dealing with asphalt mixtures, rehabilitation, and maintenance. He is  the author of over 90 technical publications and reports in the field of  pavement materials characterization, temperature and moisture and  drainage effects, mix design and performance characterization.


Research StatementDr. Carpenter's research focuses on performance characterization and implementation of Superpave asphalt mixtures for the Illinois DOT, the Division of Aeronautics, and the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority. As part of the Federal Aviation Administration's Center of Excellence for Airport Technology, he helped develop new fatigue characterization methods for asphalt mixtures that will greatly enhance mechanistic pavement design philosophies with new support for a fatigue endurance limit for asphalt mixtures. His work for Caterpillar Inc. has pioneered innovative testing to determine the deformation characteristics of hot mix asphalt prior to and during compaction.
Primary Research AreaTransportation Engineering
Research Areas
Transportation Engineering













Related News



Watch









