






 



Yi-Kwei Wen 





Professor Emeritus



y-wen@illinois.edu
 





Overview
Research




Biography
Yi-Kwei  Wen holds a B.S. (National Taiwan University 1965), M.S. (University of  Western Ontario, Canada, 1968), and Ph.D. (Columbia University, New  York City 1971), all in civil engineering. He has been on the faculty of  the department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the University  of Illinois since 1971, and promoted to Professor since 1981. He was  Visiting Professor at Kyoto University, Japan in 1986, Visiting  Professor at National Taiwan University in 1993, and Visiting Chair  Professor at National Center for Research of Earthquake Engineering,  Taiwan in 2001.
Dr. Wen has taught graduate and undergraduate  courses in engineering modeling under uncertainty, introduction to  structural dynamics, engineering decision and risk analysis, and  probabilistic bases for structural loads and design. He is the author of  the book Structural Load Modeling and Combination for Performance and  Safety Evaluation (Elsevier,1990).
Dr. Wen is a member of the American Society of  Civil Engineers (ASCE), the American Academy of Mechanics, the  Earthquake Engineering Research Institute, the International Association  for Structural Safety and Reliability, and the International Federation  for Information Process. He has served as chairman on technical  committees of these societies. He is on the editorial board of the  Journal of probabilistic Mechanics, Journal of Structural Safety,  Journal of Soil dynamics and Earthquake Engineering, and Journal of  Computational Structural Engineering. He has served as associate editor  for ASCE Journal of Structural Engineering and Journal of Engineering  Mechanics.
In 1986 Dr. Wen was the recipient of the Walter  Hubert Prize of ASCE for his research on structural reliability and  nonlinear random vibration and in the same year the Moissieff Award of  ASCE for a paper on load combination. In 1997 he was given the Research  Prize of the International Association of Structural Safety and  Reliability for his contribution in the advancement of reliability-based  design and safety evaluation of structural systems. In 2002, he won the  Raymond Reese Research Prize of ASCE for his paper on design loads for  parking garages.


Research StatementDr. Wen has research interests in reliability analysis and reliability-based design, random vibration and applications to earthquake engineering, wind engineering, and offshore structures. He has edited or co-edited seven books, published over 60 papers in technical journals, over 120 papers in conference proceedings in the above areas.












Related News



Watch









