






 



Damien S Guironnet 





Associate Professor


(217) 265-0233
guironne@illinois.edu
121 Roger Adams Laboratory
Develops new catalysts and catalytic processes for the synthesis of new polymers with a focus on sustainability.






Overview
Research
Publications
Awards




For More Information
Research Group Website


BiographyProfessor Damien Guironnet joined the department in 2014 from BASF Corporation where he worked as a senior research scientist. At Illinois, his research focuses on the challenge of implementing recent advances in homogeneous catalysts into continuous processes. Dr. Guironnet received his MSc from Ecole Nationale Supérieure d'enseignement en Chimie in France in 2005 and his PhD from the University of Constance in Germany in 2009.
Education
Postdoctorate, University of North Carolina, 2009-2011
Ph.D., University of Constance (Germany), 2009
M.S., Ecole Nationale Supérieur de Chimie de Mulhouse (France), 2005

Academic Positions
Assistant Professor, Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering

Other Professional Employment
Research Scientist at BASF Corp., 2011-2014



Research Interests
Polymer synthesis, organometallic chemistry and catalysis

Research StatementThe research in our group lies at the interface of polymer science and catalysis. Our approach is multidisciplinary and involves a diverse array of techniques. The impact of our research is expected to fall within the domains of materials science and green chemistry. Overall, we are designing new catalysts and catalytic processes to transform bio-based and oil-based feedstocks into valuable chemicals and to develop new sustainable polymerization techniques. Projects in my group include 1) the development of new processes for the production of important chemicals from abundant raw materials, 2) the design of new methods for the synthesis of end-functionalized and amphiphilic polymers, and 3) the synthesis of new catalysts for the insertion (co)polymerization of polar monomers.
For More Information
Research Group Website




Selected Articles in Journals
D. J. Walsh, M. G. Hyatt, S. A. Miller, D. Guironnet, Recent Trends in Catalytic Polymerizations, ACS Catalysis, accepted for publication 
D. J. Walsh; D, Guironnet, Macromolecules with programmable shape, size and chemistry, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A 2019, 116, 1538-1542 
M. G. Hyatt, D. J. Walsh, R. L. Lord, J. G. Andino Martinez, D. Guironnet. Mechanistic and Kinetic Studies of the Ring Opening Metathesis Polymerization of Norbornenyl Monomers by Grubbs 3rd Generation Catalyst. J. Am. Chem. Soc, accepted for publication
C. Boucher-Jacobs, M. Rabnawaz, J. S. Katz, R. Even, D. Guironnet “Encapsulation of Catalyst in Block Copolymer Micelles for the Polymerization of Ethylene in Aqueous Medium” Nature Comm. 2018, 9, 841
D. J. Walsh, S. Dutta, C. E. Sing and D. Guironnet, Engineering of Molecular Geometry in Bottlebrush Polymers, Macromolecules 2018, 51, 10167-10173.



Honors
 Young Investigator Award, American Chemical Society’s Division of Polymeric Materials: Science and Engineering (PMSE) ( 2019)
School of Chemical Sciences Teaching Award (2015-2016)

Teaching Honors
School of Chemical Sciences Teaching Award (2015-2016)

For More Information
Research Group Website










Related News


Summer camp introduces high schoolers to chemical and biomolecular engineering 


Scientists crack upcycling plastics to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, advancing a recent Science study


Illinois co-leads DOE grant to engineer bioplastic packaging that's infinitely recyclable


Guironnet named Center for Advanced Study Fellow


ACS division names Guironnet a Young Investigator


ChBE graduate student selected to present at ACS polymer conference









