






 



David Pecknold 





Professor Emeritus



dap1@illinois.edu
 





Overview
Research




Biography
Professor  David A. Pecknold retired in 2002 after 32 years on the department  faculty.  His career included teaching, consulting and both university  and industrial research experience in structural mechanics and dynamics,  development of material models and computer simulation techniques.
Pecknold came to Illinois after earning his bachelor's degree in  civil engineering from the University of British Columbia in 1965.  He  earned a master's and doctorate from the department in 1966 and 1968,  then accepted a position as a mechanical engineer with Shell Development  Company in Houston, Texas.  He returned to the department in 1970 as an  assistant professor and was promoted to professor in 1979.  He served  as associate head from 1991 to 1996.  He also served on the College  Executive Committee, the Educational Policy Committee of the Faculty  Senate, and the Campus Research Board.
Pecknold served as a consultant on many projects involving subway and  railway tunnels, excavations, underground piping systems and aspects of  nonlinear structural analysis. 
His work in computer modeling, in collaboration with other CEE faculty, has led to the issue of two patents related to the determination of the properties of materials by testing the structural systems of which they are a part.
A paper he published in 1977 with University of Kansas Professor  David Darwin, "Nonlinear Biaxial Stress-Strain Law for Concrete," which  appeared in the Journal of the Engineering Mechanics Division of the  American Society of Civil Engineers, was considered seminal.


Research StatementDr. Pecknold's areas of research included methodsof numerical analysis of plate and shell structures; nonlinear material behavior laws for reinforced concrete; inelastic seismic response of structures; mechanics and failure analysis of high performance composites; and dynamic and impact loading.












Related News



Watch









