






 



Douglas A Foutch 





Professor Emeritus



dfoutch@illinois.edu
 





Overview
Research




Primary Research AreaStructural Engineering ARCHIVED
Research Areas
Structural Engineering

Biography
Douglas  A. Foutch holds a B.S. (University of Illinois 1970), M.S. (University  of Hawaii 1972) and Ph.D. (California Institute of Technology 1976), all  in Civil Engineering. He joined the faculty of the Department of Civil  and Environmental Engineering at the University of Illinois in 1976.
Dr. Foutch has taught graduate and undergraduate  classes in design of steel structures, design of structural systems,  structural dynamics and earthquake engineering.
Dr. Foutch is a member of the American Society  of Civil Engineers (ASCE) and the Earthquake Engineering Research  Institute (EERI). He is currently the Associate Editor of Earthquake  Spectra published by EERI and Journal of Bridge Engineering published by  ASCE. He has served as the Chair of the Committee on Seismic Effects on  Structures and the Administrative Committee on Dynamic Effects on  Structures of ASCE. He is currently a member of the Subcommittee on  Seismic Effects of ASCE7. He is also the UIUC representative on the  Consortium of Universities for Research in Earthquake Engineering  (CUREE). He was the Steel Team Leader for the FEMA 273/274 project and  the Team Leader for Performance Prediction and Evaluation for the FEMA  350 project. Dr. Foutch has served as a consultant on several major  projects including a major cable-stayed bridge crossing the Mississippi  River and an elevated mass transit system in Taiwan.
Dr. Foutch was awarded the Haliburton Education  Leadership Award by the College of Engineering in 1992. He was awarded  the Arthur M. Wellington Research Prize by ASCE in 1990 and 1998. In  1994 he was awarded the Norman Medal by ASCE. He was named as a  Distinguished Visiting Scholar by the Japan Society for the Promotion of  Science in 1994.


Research StatementDr. Foutch has research interests in the areas of response of steel and reinforced concrete bridges and buildings to earthquake loads, response of railway bridges to revenue traffic and testing and evaluation of full-scale structures.
Primary Research AreaStructural Engineering ARCHIVED
Research Areas
Structural Engineering













Related News



Watch









