






 



James H Long he/him/his





Professor Emeritus


(217) 333-2543
jhlong@illinois.edu
2230d Newmark Civil Engineering Bldg





Overview
Research




Primary Research AreaGeotechnical Engineering ARCHIVED
Research Areas
Geotechnical Engineering

Biography
James  H. Long holds a B.S. (1976), M.S. (1981), and Ph.D. (1984), all in  civil engineering at the University of Texas in Austin. He has been on  the faculty of the department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at  the University of Illinois since 1985. He is the Director of the Harry  J. Schnabel Jr. Large Soil Model Test Laboratory.
Dr. Long has taught graduate and undergraduate courses in  geotechnical engineering. The undergraduate courses he has taught  include Introductory Soil Mechanics, and Geotechnical Engineering.  Graduate level classes taught include Applied Soil Mechanics, Behavior  of Deep Foundations, Earth Pressures and Retaining Structures, and  Geosynthetics and Mechanically Stabilized Earth. He also teaches classes  on driven piling and drilled shafts that are offered nationwide by ASCE  and FHWA.
Dr. Long is a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, the  GeoInstitute, the International Society for Soil Mechanics and  Geotechnical Engineering, the Deep Foundations Institute, the Pile  Driving Contractors Association, the Association of Drilled Shaft  Contractors. He serves on the Technical committee TC 23 on Limit State  Design in Geotechnical Engineering Practice for the International  Society for Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering. He also serves  on the committee for developing Driven Pile Installation Specifications  for the Pile Driving Contractors Association. He has also served as on  other committees for American Society of Civil Engineering and for the  Transportation Research Board.


Research StatementDr. Long has research interests focused on soil-structure interaction such as behavior of axially and laterally loaded foundations, use of load test database for reliability-based design, earthquake engineering, mechanically stabilized earth and earth support systems, and ground improvement methods and their effect on structures. He is actively involved in conducting both field and model-scale tests for foundations and excavations.
Primary Research AreaGeotechnical Engineering ARCHIVED
Research Areas
Geotechnical Engineering













Related News



Watch









