






 



Mark M Clark 





Professor Emeritus


(217) 333-3629
mmclark3@illinois.edu
3206 Newmark Civil Engineering Bldg





Overview
Research




Biography
Mark  M. Clark holds a B.S. (Missouri-Columbia 1974) in Civil Engineering,  and an M.S. (Missouri-Columbia 1978) and Ph.D. (Johns Hopkins University  1985) in Environmental Engineering. He has been on the faculty of the  department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at the University of  Illinois since 1987. He has had a number of post-doc and sabbatical  experiences at French water and chemical engineering laboratories in  Paris, Nancy and Toulouse.
Dr. Clark has taught graduate and undergraduate courses  in environmental modeling, water and wastewater treatment, environmental  laboratory, membrane technology, fluid mechanics and mixing, and  hydrosystems engineering. The capstone of his teaching experience has  been developing a textbook, Transport Modeling for Environmental  Engineers and Scientists (Wiley-Interscience, 1996) that is used in his  classroom and at other universities around the world.
Dr. Clark has organized numerous research reviews,  workshops and symposia under the auspices the American Water Works  Association, the American Chemical Society, the North American Membrane  Society, and a unique faculty/student exchange with the French CNRS. His  consulting experiences include work with engineering firms,  professional organizations, and national laboratories.
Dr. Clark received the NSF Presidential Young  Investigator and UIUC Xerox Research awards, and was recently appointed  an Associate in the campus Center for Advanced Science. He has received  several College of Engineering awards for outstanding teaching and  advising of undergraduates.


Research StatementDr. Clark's research interests naturally parallel his teaching responsibilities. He has done research on flocculation, mixing and reactor turbulence, fast precipitation of aluminum coagulants, and floc breakup and structure; his most recent research has focused on characterization of membrane surfaces and the foulants which accumulate on membranes. He has also worked extensively with membrane pilots set up at real water treatment facilities around the US and abroad.












Related News



Watch









