






 



Roger A Minear 





Professor Emeritus



r-minear@illinois.edu
 





Overview




Biography
Roger  A. Minear holds a B.S. in Chemistry (1964), M.S.E. in Civil Engineering  (1966), and Ph.D. in Civil Engineering (1971), all from the University  of Washington. He was on the faculty of the Department of Civil and  Environmental Engineering at the University of Illinois from 1984 to  2002 when he retired. He now holds the rank of Professor Emeritus. From  1984 to 1995 he was Director of the Institute for Environmental Studies.  He was also a faculty member in the Campus Honors Program from 1989 to  2002.
 Dr. Minear has taught graduate  courses in environmental chemistry, introduction to environmental  studies, and a course in the Campus Honors Program on environmental  quality. Dr. Minear had research interests in the nature, origin,  transport, and transformation of organic and inorganic compounds in  natural and waste waters, the chemistry of aqueous solutions and  chemical processes of water and wastewater treatment, and trace and  environmental analysis. He generated more than 300 professional papers,  presentations, and graduate theses in the Environmental Science and  Engineering field. Dr. Minear has received 56 research grant and  contract awards (excluding multi-year renewals) from state, federal, and  private organizations 
Dr. Minear has been a member of ten professional and  scientific societies where he has served on numerous committees and has  held several national offices. He remains an active member of the  American Chemical Society and is a Life member of the American Water  Works Association. He has also served on several national advisory  boards and task forces. He was a member of the National Research  Council’s Board on Environmental Sciences and Toxicolgy from 1983 to  1985 and the Agency for Toxicolgy and Disease Registry Board of  Scientific Counselors from 1988 to 1993. He has served on the editorial  advisory boards of Lewis Publishers, ACS Books, and two terms for the  journal, Environmental Science and Technology. He served as a chemistry  editor for the journal Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry from 1995  through 1999. He was on the Standard Methods committee for four  editions.
Dr. Minear has received distinguished service  awards from the Association of Environmental Engineering Professors  (1984) and the Division of Environmental Chemistry, American Chemical  Society (1985). He was an invited scholar at Nankai University, Tianjin,  People's Republic of China, September 1988, and was made a guest  professor in August of 1996. From January through July of 1996, he was a  visiting research scholar at Kyoto University in Japan. He has also  served on several university research centers’ advisory boards and  programmatic review panels. He is listed in numerous who’s who  publications.














Related News



Watch









