






 



Simon Hu 





Adjunct Associate Professor



simonhu@illinois.edu
 





Overview




BiographyDr. Simon Hu is an Assistant Professor at the ZJU-UIUC Institute at Zhejiang University. He has a background in Civil Engineering and specializes in Transport and Environment Engineering. In 2006, he completed his Master's degree in Transport and Sustainable Engineering from Imperial College London; he earned his PhD in Transport System Engineering in the same department in 2011. He is a member of the Chartered Institute of Highways and Transport Engineering (CIHT) and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (IEEE). In the past, he obtained research grants and undertook research projects through the Royal Society, Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), UK Natural Environmental Research Council (NERC), Department for Transport (DfT), European Commission, INNOVATE UK and industry. To date, he has obtained a total grant value of more than ￡2million. He has published over 10 peer-reviewed journal papers, 30 conference proceedings, and 2 government reports.Currently, his main research interests lie in smart urban transport systems, traffic micro-simulation modelling, vehicle emission modelling, and urban air quality management. His work to date has spanned across the areas of connected and autonomous vehicles, vehicle navigation, network reliability, traffic prediction and management, bike-sharing, urban freight logistics emissions, aviation, and railway engineering.
Education
BEng. (Hons) In Civil Engineering, University of Nottingham, Department of Civil Engineering, UK, 2002 – 2005

BEng. (Hons) In Civil Engineering
MSc. In Transport with Sustainable Development, Imperial College London, Centre for Transport Studies, UK,  2005 – 2006 
Ph.D. In Civil Engineering, Imperial College London, Centre for Transport Studies, UK, 2007 – 2011 

Academic Positions
Honorary Research Fellow, Imperial College London, 2018-present
Assistant Professor, Zhejiang University, 2018-present















Related News



Watch









