






 


Michael L Oelze 



Professor
(217) 333-9226
oelze@illinois.edu
4251 Beckman Institute



For More Information
Oelze - Ultrasound Research Laboratories
Bioacoustics Research Laboratory Page

Education
PhD in Physics, University of Mississippi, 2000

Teaching StatementProfessor Oelze is interested in teaching wave propagation, acoustics, ultrasonic imaging, electromagnetics, biomedical imaging and mentoring students in research activities.
Research StatementProfessor Oelze's research deals with several aspects of ultrasound/tissue interaction including: cancer detection using quantitative ultrasound, ultrasound microscopy, bioeffects of ultrasound, ultrasound-based therapies and coded excitation. Professor Oelze is using quantitative ultrasound techniques to analyze ultrasonic backscatter for breast cancer and thyroid cancer detection and for detection and grading of fatty liver disease.  Professor Oelze has examined the effects of ultrasound on hemorrhaging of lung tissue. Dr. Oelze is also studying the use of very high frequency ultrasound for experiments in ultrasound backscatter microscopy. Dr. Oelze has been studying inverse scattering techniques to create tomographic reconstructions of the sound speed, density and attenuation of materials.  Dr. Oelze is researching means to estimate the concentration of ultrasound contrast agents in vivo from the backscattered signals.  Dr. Oelze has developed a novel coded excitation technique combined with pulse compression to double the bandwidth of an ultrasonic imaging system. The additional bandwidth can be used to improve spatial resolution, improve contrast resolution, and/or improve the estimation of scatterer properties. Dr. Oelze is also interested in using coded excitation to improve harmonic imaging in ultrasound. Dr. Oelze is working on a project involving ultrasound-activated microbubbles to enhance cancer therapy. Finally, Dr. Oelze is working on techniques to stage, monitor, and assess high-intensity focused ultrasound treatment of solid tumors. The technique is based on using quantitative ultrasound imaging to detect tissue changes due to temperature rise in tissues, and  assessing noninvasively the effects of thermal ablation and hyperthermia on tissues. Dr. Oelze is also interested in monitoring therapy in tumors and in novel ultrasonic therapies for cancer treatment.
Undergraduate Research OpportunitiesSeveral projects are available for undergraduate research including the use of coding schemes to enhance ultrasonic imaging capabilities, devising improved measurement and calibration techniques for ultrasonic imaging, and quantifying materials using ultrasound. Students involved in these research opportunities will learn to characterize and calibrate ultrasonic sources, process data, and develop important laboratory skills.
Research Interests
Acoustic Communications
Ultrasound therapy
Coded Excitation and Ultrasound
Ultrasound Computed Tomography
Bioeffects of ultrasound
Treatment monitoring using ultrasound
Cancer diagnosis using ultrasound
Quantitative ultrasound imaging
Ultrasound backscatter microscopy
Click for more

Research Areas
Acoustics
Biomedical imaging
Biomedical Imaging, Bioengineering, and Acoustics


Research Topics
Healthcare and medical technologies
Imaging science and systems
Machine learning
Medical imaging
Point-of-care diagnostics
Sensing systems
Click for more
Honors
Invited participant, 2014 Japan-America Frontiers of Engineering Symposium (JAFOE), Sponsored by the NAE and Japan Science and Technology Agency, Tokyo, Japan, 2014
Senior member, IEEE and IEEE Ultrasonics, Ferroelectronics, and Frequency Control
Fellow, American Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine
Fulbright Scholar, 2012-2013
HP Travel Award, 2012-2013
3M Nontenured faculty award, 2006, 2007 and 2008
F32 NIH Individual Postdoctoral Fellowship, 2002-2004
National Dean's list, 1999-2000
Physics Graduate Student of the Year, 1998-1999
Phi Kappa Phi, 1998
Alpha Chi, 1993
Click for more
Teaching Honors
Teacher Ranked as Excellent by Students,  Spring 2015
Teacher Ranked as Excellent by Students,  Fall 2014
Teacher Ranked as Excellent by Students,  Spring 2014
Teacher Ranked as Excellent by Students,  Fall 2013
Teacher Ranked as Excellent by Students, Spring 2012 (for both ECE 472 and ECE 473)
Teacher Ranked as Excellent by Students, Spring 2011 (Listed as Outstanding)
Teacher Ranked as Excellent by Students, Spring 2010
Teacher Ranked as Excellent by Students, Spring 2008
Teacher Ranked as Excellent by Students,  Fall 2006
Click for more
Research Honors
2nd Place Student Paper Competition, 153rd meeting of ASA (2007)

Public Service Honors
Officer, Basic Science and Instrumentation Community of Practice, AIUM, 2013-
Technical Program Committee, IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium, 2013-
Associate Editor, Ultrasonic Imaging, 2013-
Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control, 2013-2018
Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 2012-
Member, Advisory Editorial Board, Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology, 2008-2016
Click for more

Recent Courses TaughtBIOE 571 - Biological Measurement I
ECE 445 - Senior Design Project Lab
ECE 472 - Biomedical Ultrasound Imaging
ECE 473 (TAM 413) - Fund of Engrg Acoustics
ECE 590 BRL (ECE 590 D) - Bioacoustics







Related News


$2.5M NIH grant awarded to Oelze to advance ultrasound monitoring for breast cancer


New seizure-monitoring baseball cap innovated by ECE and Carle Illinois students


Carle Illinois researchers advance breast cancer imaging device, supported by new NIH grant


Seed Awards Support Collaborative Cancer Research


Carle Illinois welcomes Haran and Oelze


Illinois ECE researchers publish article describing Illinois RapidVent emergency ventilator








