






 



Aron Barbey 





ProfessorProfessor of Psychology


(217) 244-2551
barbey@illinois.edu
2251 Beckman Institute





Overview
Research
Publications




Primary Research AreaBioimaging at Multi-Scale
For More Information
Decision Neuroscience Laboratory
Decision Neuroscience Laboratory on Twitter
Center for Brain, Biology & Behavior

BiographyAron Keith Barbey is the Mildred Francis Thompson Professor of Psychology and Director of the Center for Brain, Biology and Behavior, and the Decision Neuroscience Laboratory at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. He began his career at the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 2011, where he was promoted to full professor in 2019. Dr. Barbey maintains an affiliation with the Bioengineering Program at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. His research investigates the neural mechanisms of human intelligence and decision making, with particular emphasis on enhancing these functions through cognitive neuroscience, physical fitness, and nutritional intervention. His research has been supported by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Department of Defense, the White House BRAIN Initiative, the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, and private industry (Abbott Nutrition, Google Brain, and PepsiCo). Dr. Barbey has received multiple research awards and is the editor of the Cambridge Handbook of Intelligence and Cognitive Neuroscience and the forthcoming Oxford Handbook of Cognitive Enhancement and Brain Plasticity. He earned his doctorate in Psychology from Emory University and completed a research fellowship in Cognitive Neuroscience at the National Institutes of Health.
Education
Ph.D., Psychology, Emory University

Academic Positions
Affiliate, Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology
Professor, Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology
Professor, Department of Bioengineering
Professor, Department of Psychology

Journal Editorships
Associate Editor, Cortex
Editorial Board, Intelligence
Editorial Board, Thinking & Reasoning
Editorial Board, Trends in Neuroscience and Education



Research Interests
Our research investigates the principles of brain organization that underlie executive control, reasoning and decision making. Through a combination of human behavioral, computational modeling, functional neuroimaging (fMRI) and neuropsychological patient data, we seek to uncover the mechanisms that shape higher cognitive processes and to develop predictive models of brain function that link neural systems to specific patterns of inference and behavior. An important motivation for our work is the development of a theoretically sound foundation for research on the relationship between disturbances of brain function and their manifestation as disorders of thought and behavior in psychiatric illness and neurological disease.

Primary Research AreaBioimaging at Multi-Scale


Selected Articles in Journals
For full publications, please see myncbi. 














Related News


Study: Network neuroscience theory best predictor of intelligence


Beckman welcomes Barbey, Diao as research theme co-chairs








