






 



Jamshid Ghaboussi 





Professor Emeritus



jghabous@illinois.edu
 





Overview
Research




BiographyJamshid  Ghaboussi holds a B.S. in Civil Engineering (University of Tehran  1965), M.Eng. (Nova Scotia Technical College 1967) in structural  engineering, and a Ph.D. (University of California, Berkeley 1971) in  structural engineering and structural mechanics. He served for one year  as a senior research engineer at Agbabian Assoc. in Los Angeles and  spent a year as a Research Fellow at Norwegian Technical University in  Trondheim, Norway. He joined the faculty of the department of Civil and  Environmental Engineering in 1973.
Dr. Ghaboussi has taught undergraduate and graduate courses in  structural analysis, FEM, structural dynamics, and soil dynamics. He has  developed graduate seminar courses on: Nonlinear Analysis in Structural  Mechanics, Numerical Methods in Computational Mechanics, Advanced  Topics in Computational Geomechanics, Neural Networks in Engineering  Applications, Advanced Analysis in Structural Engineering, and Control  of Civil Engineering Structures.
Dr. Ghaboussi is a member of American Society of Civil Engineers,  Earthquake Engineering Research Institute, American Academy of  Mechanics, and International Neural Network Society. He has served on a  number of committees, including: The Emerging Computing Technology  Committee of ASCE; and, Committee on Methods of Analysis and Design of  Tall Steel Buildings of Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. He  has been a member of the editorial board of: Journal of Computers and  Geotechnics; International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods  in Geomechanics; Scientia Iranica; and, International Journal of  Seismology and Earthquake Engineering. He has served on the Technical  Advisory Boards of a number of conferences. He holds several patents,  which have resulted from his research.
His work in computer modeling, in collaboration with other CEE faculty, has led to the issue of two patents related to the determination of the properties of materials by testing the structural systems of which they are a part. 
Dr. Ghaboussi has given over 10 keynote lectures in international  conferences. During the Fall semester of 2000 he was an invited Guest  Chair Professor at the Department of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan  University.


Research StatementDr. Ghaboussi has research interests in computational mechanics, earthquake engineering, analysis of long span bridges, and emerging new technologies in computational intelligence. He has conducted research in application of neural networks and genetic algorithm in: active control of structures; ultrasonic rail flaw detection; bridge condition monitoring; neural network based constitutive modeling from the results of structural tests; evolutionary methods in structural design; generation of artificial earthquake accelerograms; and, real-time soil models for machine-medium interaction in virtual reality.












Related News


Body of Work


Algorithm Leads to Two Patents



Watch









