






 


Kiruba Sivasubramaniam Haran  


Administrative TitlesGrainger Chair and Director of CEME

Professor
(217) 244-1838
kharan@illinois.edu
4048 Electrical & Computer Eng Bldg



For More Information
POETS Engineering Research Center
Power and energy systems area
Grainger Center for Electric Machinery and Electromechanics

Education
Ph.D., Electric Power Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
B.Sc., Electronic and Electrical Engineering, OAU, Nigeria

BiographyKiruba Haran is a Professor and the Grainger Endowed Director's Chair in Electric Machinery and Electromechanics in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Dr. Haran moved to Illinois after spending 13 years at GE Research in Niskayuna, NY. At GE, he led the research group working on advanced electrical machines for the various GE businesses. In this role he was responsible for a broad set of technology development activities, including projects on novel machines for aviation, renewable energy, defense, appliances, EV’s, locomotives, and mining equipment. At Illinois, Dr. Haran's research has focused on high specific power cryogenic and non-cryo machines for electrified transportation and renewable energy applications. He also serves as the Director of the NSF funded POETS Engineering Research Center, and the Grainger Center for Electric Machinery and Electromechanics.  Dr. Haran obtained his BS in Electronic and Electrical Engineering from OAU in Nigeria, and his PhD in Electric Power Engineering from RPI in Troy, NY. He is a registered PE in New York and a Fellow of the IEEE. 

Research Areas
Electric transportation
Electrical machines and drive systems
Power and Energy Systems


Research Topics
Electric transportation
Energy
Solar and renewable technology
Storage and conversion

Journal Editorships
Guest Editor, Special Issue on Electrified Aircraft Technologies, IEEE Transactions on Transportation Electrification (2021/22)
Guest Editor, Special Issue on: Electric and Hybrid Electric Propulsion for Aviation, IET Electric Power Applications Journal
Editor, IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, 2015 -2020

Research Honors
IEEE Nikola Tesla Award (Technical Field Award) (2023)
IEEE PES Cyril Veinott Electromechanical Energy Conversion Award (2019)
IEEE PES Distinguished Lecturer (2017 -)
IEEE Fellow (2014)
Hull Award, GE Global Research (2006)
Allen B. Dumont Prize, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (2000)
Click for more

Recent Courses TaughtECE 431 - Electric Machinery
ECE 445 - Senior Design Project Lab
ECE 598 KH (ECE 598 KSH) - Topics in Electromechanics







Related News


Haran shares thoughts on megawatt motor for electric aircraft 


Haran shares thoughts on all-electric conventional planes


Haran named as new POETS director 


ECE faculty receive OPEN 2021 grant funding for research projects


Successful test by UIUC, NASA, and Collins gets us one step closer to electric aircraft


Haran helps students create new RSO Illini Air Shuttle








