

In This SectionPeopleAll Faculty
Department Faculty
Adjuncts and Affiliates
Emeritus Faculty


Staff
Staff Listing
Service Areas and Offices






 


Waltraud M Kriven 



Donald Biggar Willett Professor
(217) 333-5258
kriven@illinois.edu
105 Materials Science & Eng Bld



For More Information
Kriven research group page

Biography	Waltraud M. Kriven received a Ph.D in Solid State Chemistry from the University of Adelaide in South Australia. The B.Sc. (Hons) and Baccalaureate degrees were in Physical and Inorganic Chemistry, and Biochemistry, also in Adelaide. Dr. Kriven spent one year as a Post Doctoral Teaching and Research Fellow in the Chemistry Dept. at the University of Western Ontario in Canada. She then spent three years jointly at the University of California at Berkeley, and at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory. There, Dr. Kriven conducted post-doctoral research in transmission electron microscopy of ceramics and was a Lecturer, teaching Phase Equilibria in the senior undergraduate Ceramics Program of the Dept. of Materials Science and Mineral Engineering. For almost four years.  Dr. Kriven was a Visiting Scientist at the Max-Planck-Institute in Stuttgart, Germany. There she studied the mechanism of transformation toughening of composite ceramics by 1 MeV HVEM, while working in the electron microscopy group headed by Dr. M. Rühle. Since then, Professor Kriven has been at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA. She is a Full Professor and has held joint faculty positions in the Materials Research Laboratory (initially) and the Department of Materials Science and Engineering. She is also an Affiliate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.Professor Kriven has internationally recognized expertise in the areas of phase transformations in inorganic compounds and their applications in structural ceramic composites, geopolymers, and low temperature synthesis of oxide ceramic powders. In addition she has made extensive contributions to oxide composites design, microstructure characterization by electron microscopy techniques and phase equilibria. The Kriven group has developed an in situ, hot stage (up to 2000°C) synchrotron furnace for studies of ceramics in air. Kriven has produced 340 research publications, 59 conference proceedings, edited or co-edited 27 books and 6 patents.Professor Kriven has been elected as a member of the European Union Academy of Sciences (2020), an Academician in the World Academy of Ceramics (2005), Fellow of the American Ceramic Society (1995) and Fellow of the Australian Ceramic Society (2009). She has won the Mueller Award (2017) from the Engineering Division of the American Ceramic Society for her research in ceramics. She was awarded  the Brunauer Award twice (in 1988 and 1991) from the American Ceramic Society for co-authoring the best research papers of the year. Six US patents have been granted for her research with a further four in progress. Professor Kriven was a Past-Chair and Counselor to the Engineering Ceramics Division of the American Ceramic Society and Symposium Organizer of the Focused session on Geopolymers at the ACERS Annual Meetings, the Cocoa Beach and Daytona Beach Conferences and Expositions on Advanced Ceramics and Composites from 2003 to 2021.  She has been the co-organizer on 22 international conferences on geopolymers, and was a co-organizer of 10 Int. Symposiium on Phase Transformations in Ceramics: Science and Applications held annually (2013-2023) at MS&T conferences in USA. Prof. Kriven organizes 3-4 international conferences per year on geopolymers and phase transformations in ceramics. Kriven started her company, Keanetech, LLC in 2004 which is affiliated with the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Enterprise Works. It is a technology transition company specializing in ceramics and geopolymers.
Documents
Condensed resume
Full resume

Major Consulting Activities
US Army Corps of Engineers - Construction Engineering Research Laboratory (CERL) 2013 - present


Research Areas
Ceramics


Research Topics
Energy & Environment 
Mechanical Properties and Materials for Extreme Conditions

Chapters in Books
Kriven, Waltraud M. (2021) Geopolymers and Geopolymer-Derived Composites. In: Pomeroy, M. (ed)
Encyclopedia of Materials: Technical Ceramics and Glasses, vol. 1, pp. 424–438. Oxford: Elsevier.
Kriven, Waltraud M. (2018) 5.9 “Geopolymer-Based Composites”. In: Beaumont, P.W.R. and Zweben, C.H. (eds.), Comprehensive Composite Materials II. vol. 5, pp. 269–280. Oxford: Academic Press. 


Recent Courses TaughtMSE 420 - Ceramic Materials & Properties
MSE 421 - Ceramic Processing










