






 



Yujie Men 





Adjunct Assistant Professor


(217) 244-8259
ymen2@illinois.edu
3209 Newmark Civil Engineering Bldg





Overview
Research




Primary Research AreaEnvironmental Engineering and Science
Research Areas
Environmental Engineering and Science

For More Information
MEN Research Group

BiographyYujie Men holds a B.S. in Environmental Engineering from Tsinghua University (2005). She earned her M.S. from Tsinghua University (2007) in Environmental Science and Engineering, and her Ph.D. from University of California at Berkeley (2012), in Civil and Environmental Engineering.Before joining the department of Civil and Environmental Engineering as an Assistant Professor in March 2016, she served as a postdoctoral researcher in the Engineering Research Center for Re-inventing the Nation’s Urban Water Infrastructure (ReNUWIt) at University of California, Berkeley (2012-2013), and a postdoctoral scientist at Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology (Eawag) (2014-2016).She is a member of International Society for Microbial Ecology, the American Society for Microbiology, American Chemical Society, and Association of Environmental Engineering and Science Professors. 


Research StatementDr. Men’s main research goal is to promote the development of sustainable biotechnologies for cleaner water and a safer environment, by advancing the fundamental knowledge of microbial metabolic diversities and microbe-microbe interactions in built and natural environments. She has research interests in understanding and optimizing functional microbial consortia using conventional and high-throughput molecular and analytical approaches (e.g. metagenomics, metatranscriptomic and metabolomics), for a variety of applications, such as groundwater bioremediation, anaerobic wastewater and biosolid treatment, fate and biotransformation pathways of contaminants with emerging concerns (CECs). Her primary research areas include: 1) simultaneous removal of green house gas and nitrogen nutrient from anaerobic digestion effluent using enriched communities with anaerobic methane and ammonia oxidizing bacteria; 2) linkages between the fate of antimicrobial chemicals and the development of antibiotic resistance in environmental microorganisms; 3) identification of key enzymes in activated sludge for biotransforming CECs; 4) implementation of resilient and robust microbial consortia to recover value-added compounds from biosolids.
Primary Research AreaEnvironmental Engineering and Science
Research Areas
Environmental Engineering and Science













Related News


Copolymer helps remove pervasive PFAS toxins from environment



Watch









